# Overview: Swift for Android Exploration (Skip.tools)

## 1. Inventory of Current Sample Apps
This is an overview of the current proof-of-concepts (PoCs) developed to validate Skip's functionality.

* **[Thuisarts Skip Fuse]**
    * *Description:* This project uses Skip Lite to translate the business logic and UI to Kotlin. This means that all the code is getting transpiled to equivalent code in Kotlin. All the shared code is in the Sources folder. All the translated Android code is in the Android folder which you can open separately in Android Studio. There are no seperate screens for Android because all the Android code is automatically getting generated when building the code in Xcode.

## 2. Architecture: Shared vs. Platform-Specific Code
The projects uses the Skip transpiler to maintain a shared codebase.

* **Shared Code (Swift):**
    * Business logic and data models (ViewModels).
    * Networking layer and API calls.
    * All SwiftUI views.
* **Android-Specific (Kotlin/Android Studio):**
    * Kotlin files generated by Skip.
    * Android Gradle build scripts (`build.gradle.kts`), `AndroidManifest.xml`, and Fastlane configurations (`Fastfile`, `Appfile`).

## 3. Build and Run Instructions
Instructions to build and run the app locally.

**For iOS:**
1.  Open the project in Xcode.
2.  Select the desired iOS simulator or physical device.
3.  Make sure an Android emulator is running, otherwise the build will fail.
4.  Press `Cmd + R` (Run) to build and start the application.

**For Android:**
1.  Open the `Android/` folder of the project in Android Studio.
2.  Allow Gradle to sync (this processes the Skip-generated Kotlin code).
3.  Select an Android Emulator or physical device and click 'Run' (`Shift + F10`).


## 4. Known Issues & Open Questions

**Known Issues:**
* There is a issue with a function in the TextComponentView. This function does not work on Android. Because of that this function is excluded from the Android code and only runs on iOS. There was an issue with the Apple SF-Symbols which is temporarliy resolved by using different icons for Android. There was an issue with the scrolling on Android. This issue was caused because of nested NavigationStacks in Swift but this is now fixed.

**Open Questions for Reviewers:**
* []
